Welcome back in this step let's take a pause and take a quick review of what we have been doing until
now.
We started with creating a couple of Micro services currency calculation service and currency exchange
service currency calculation service is a consumer of the currency exchange service.
When we started off we had a direct URL connection between the currency calculation service and the currency
exchange service.
So if we have other currency exchange services which are coming up the currency calculation service but
not able to talk to them and to be able to get load balancing the introduced ribbon.
Before that we added feign the currency calculation service to make it easy to call the rest services
from currency exchange service with feign writing client services for restfull webservices becomes very
easy after that we added ribbon and we load balance between two instances of the currency exchange service
so all the calls that were coming in from the currency calculation service were distributed between
two instances of the currency exchange.
service the way we achieve that is by hard coding the URLs of the currency exchange service in the application
dot properties of the currency conversion service we thought that that's not good enough.
And we introduced namings server we connected.
Currency calculation service.
And the currency exchange service to the naming server.
And what we did is instead of hard coding the values are hard coading the URLs of the currency exchange.
service with the currency calculation service we said talk to the naming server and get the URLs of
the currency exchange service in the last step we were able to dynamically bring up and send down the currency
exchange.
services if there were four currency exchange services which were alive then we were distributing
the load between them.
If two of them are brought down the remaining two are the ones which would handle all the requests we
were able to dynamically bring up services bring them down without causing a problem to the consumers
without causing a problem to the currency calculation service.
This is what is needed in the world of micro services in the world of micro services.
There are so many small services which are talking to each other that we would want to be able to bring
new instances of them take all the instances down without causing a problem to any of the other consumers.
And that what we have set up between the currency calculation service and the currency exchange service.
and the tools we used to be able to do that are A the naming server and B.
Ribbon C is feign naming server is the one which offers registration that service registration and service
discovery functionality ribbon provides the client side load balancing facilities so it enables client
calculation service to distribute the load between multiple service providers and we used feign to make
sure that the code that we write inside the currency calculation service to call the currency exchange.
Service is very simple.
In the subsequent steps we would shift our attention to its monitoring and troubleshooting when we have
multiple micro services.
We would want to have great awareness of what's happening between them and we would want to be able to
troubleshoot issues between them very easily.
Let's talk about that in the next section.
Until then Bye bye.